The level of government: Federal government, provincal government and local government. 

Definition:
	Federal states brings together a number of different political communities with a central government. 

	As a parliamentary Democracy, we elect members to our parliament and legislature. 

	As a constitutional Monarchy, Canada's head of state is a hereditary soveregin (Queen or King), who reigns in accordance with the Consistution. 

	Legislative Branch: Responsible for making laws
	Executive Branch: Responsible for administering laws and leading the government
	Judicial Branch: Responsible for applying and enforcing laws. 

Head of Canada;
	King Charles III.
	"Head of state"

Former Governor General:
	The right Honourable Julie Payette 

	Chief Justice Richard Wagner is also the administrator of the government of Canada until a new GG can be appointed. 

Sitting Governor General:
	The Right honourable Mary Simon. 

	First indigenous person to hold the role. 

	The King's representative in Canada. Appointed by the King on the recommendation of the Prime Minister. 

	Presides over swearing in of Prime Minister
	Opens new session of Parliament with a speech. 
	signs new laws on behalf of the King
	Officially dissolves parliament
	Hosts foreign dignitarties, visit other countries. 
	Celebrates excellence by giving awards to outstanding Canadians.

Prime Minister:
	Currently the Right Honourable Justin Trudeau.
	The leader of the party with the most "seats" in the House of Commons. 
	Elected as a regular MP in a specific riding. 

Cabinet:
	Chosen by Prime Minister, but officially appointed by Governor General.
	Most powerful MPs in parliament. 
	Responsible fot different government issues, referred to as "portfolios"
	Helps prime Minister direct policy
	Takes collective responsibility for government policies. 
	Must, in public, agree with government's decisions. 
	Usually have a "deputy" minister who is an expert in the area of the portfolio. 

House of Commons:
	Also called the "Lower House":

	where members of parliament sit
	Elected by voters from a specific area (riding / electoral district)
	usually part of an established political party
	debate and vote on potential new laws and government initiatives
	Usually vote the way their party leader tells them to. 

House of Commons:
	Paul Chiang(Liberal) is the MP for the Markham - Unionville.

Speaker of the House:
	Formerly the Honourable Anthony Rota
	Was forced to resign after honouring a Ukrainian WWII veteran who helped the Nazis fight against the Soviet Union. 
	his resignation triggered an election that was to be completed before session resumed.

	Greg Fergus (Liberal)
	Member of parliament who is elected to position of Speakder by other MPs. 
	Responsible for keeping order in the speech. 

	Leader of the Official Opposition:
		Pierre Poilievre:
			Elected b members of the conservative party of Canada during September 2022. 
			Elected as a regular MP in a specific riding (Carleton)
			Responsible for presenting clear alternatives to goernment policies. 
			Important role when there is a minority government. 

Shadown Cabinet:
	made of opposition MP's
	Appointed b the party leader (Usually the leader fo the official opposition)

The Senate:
	Upper House.
	Appointed by the Governor Gereral on the recommendation of the Prime Minister. 
	Responsible for reviewing and making changes to new laws. 
	

The provincial government:
	Premier:
		Currently Doug Ford

		The leader iof the party with the most seats in the pronvincial legislature

		Elected as a regular MPPs. 


	Cabinet:
		The most powerful MPPs in provincial parliament
		appointed by the premier, and usually from their own party. 
		responsible for different portfolios. 
		Help premier direct policy
		There is also a shadow cabinet in the province. 

		Legislative Assembly:
			Billy Pang. 

		Leader of the official opposition:
			Marit Stiles (NDP)

		Liberal party of Ontario:
			Resigned.
			will elect a new leader in December 2023







