Long term causes of WWII:
    STUPID:
        Treaty of Versailles,
        Unemployment, 
        Political instability,
        Inflation, 
        Depression.

Short-term causes of WWII:
    "Invasion" of Austria
    Munic Agreement, 
    Nazi-Soviet pact, 
    Invasion of Porland

S.S St. Louis:
    When Jews came to American lands as refugees, American, Cuban and Canadians all refused their landing, they had gone back to Germany, and killed by Nazi Germany.

Blitzkrieg tactic:
    Use armored Unit to quickly break enemy's defenses. Agasint Porland, France, Soviet Union. 

Dieppe:
    Canadains attacked Dieppe Habour to find out if there is a possibility to invasion France across England channel.
    a big defeat. 60% of people died. 

D-day:
    Belgian gates to stop the ship. 
    hedgehogs to stop allie's boats, meet log ramps.  
    June 6, 1944. 
    Canadians took over the Juno Beach. 
    Canadian archieved their goals.
    More than 1000+ death. 

Battle of Ortona:
    Canadian army fought with German Army in the Ortona, Italia. 
    Canadian soldiers ultimately succeeded in capturing Ortona. 
    2300 Canadian casualties.

Canadian soldiers were treated to guard Hong Kong:
    Japanese troops took over the place. 
    Were either die/prisoners of WAR.

Conscription:
    King passed "National Resources Mobilization Act" which would allowed every man in Canada to be called up to be trained to defend Canada. 
    Some English Canadian refused to fight overseas. 
    After April, 1942. Canadian voter passed the file, kings are okay to conscription. 
    16 000 ready for active and 12 000 for NRMA. 
    
USA entry into WWII:
    1941, 12 7.
    3000 American died. 
    USA declared war to "Japan" and "Nazi Germany".
    Air attack by USA. 

Holocaust: 6 million Jews was killed by Nazi Germany. 
    Coondition was super horrible. 
	
Women's role in munitions factories:
	Started at September 1942
	The Federal Government asked all women between the ages of 20 ~ 24, married women and women with children to work. 
	Women worked in all sorts of industries, radio tubes, shipbuilding and construction. 
	Women worked with weapons had a nickname of "Bren Girls"
	Women were depicted as hard-working. 
	
Japanese-Cdns internment:
	They were forced to leave in Hastings Park at first. 
	They leaved in a remote, unsanitary camp. 
	They moved to the east of Rockies or move to Japan. 
	Lots of them move to Ontario. 


