Cause of the war:
	Assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand and his wife Sophie is the "fuse" of WWI
		Archduke Franz Ferdinand: Crown Prince of Austria-Hungarian family, was killed by Serbian Terrorist group ("Actually, black hand")
		His wife Sophie was killed immediately. 
		1. Austria-Hungary demands the Serbia over the murderers. 
		2. Serbia refuse:
		3. Austria-Hungary declare wars on 
		4. Since Russia is allied with Serbia, Russia joined the war to against Austria-Hungary
		5. Since French is allied with Russia, so French joined the war. 
		6. Since Germany is allied with Austria-Hungary, so Germany joined the war. 
		7. Germany attack France. 
		8. Since British is allied with France, British joined the war. 
		9. Canada is a colony of England, Canada automatically joined the war. 
		
		Serbia black hand assassinated the Crown Prince and his Wife. (Gabriel Principe)
		
Canadian Prime Minister and Minister of Militia Sam Hughes (Ross Rifle)
	Prime Minster: Robert Borden , He ordered a huge training camp be built at Valcarier, Quebec. 
	Sam Hughes ordered Ross Rifles made by Canada. 
	Ross Rifle is not effective in trench warfare, it got jam with mud and couldn't fire reliability. 
	Soldiers reequipped Lee -Enfield rifle.
	Sam Hughes was angry about it.  
	
Famous Wars in the WWI:
	Ypres:
	Year: April 1915
	Goals: Grand the last field control by Allies in Belgium. 
		   To help British and French soldiers at the front-line trench. 
		   The first test of Chlorine Gas. 
		   Canadians held until British reinforcements. 
	Death: 6037
	
	
	Somme:
		Year:	July, 1916
		Goals:	Push the German troops back to the Germany-France border.
				The British commander: Douglas Haig, wanted to gain ground of the Somme river.
				New Machine guns, tank. 
				The Newfoundland regiment fought in the battle. 
				In 22 Minutes, the regiment lost more than half of their soldiers.
	   Remember: 	New machine gun, tank, Newfoundland, the bloodbath, 1.2 million of soldiers died in this battle. The battle taught Commander some hard lessons. 
	   
	   Vimy Ridge:
	   
	   	Year: April 1917
	   	Goals: Canada soldiers were in charge of taking the ridge from the Germans. 
	   	       To get back a vital part of France.
	   	       Julian Byng was the British Commander. 
	   	       Arthur Currie was the Canadian Commander. 
	   	       Allie wins. 
	   	 	   A turning points in Canadian history. 
	   	 Death: 3598
	   	 
	   	Passchendaele: October 1917
	   	Goals:	Stop Germany's Occupation. Canadian soldiers tried to break their lines. 
	   	      	No trenches. 
	   			 
	   	
	   			
	   	
	   	 
	   	 
	   	  
		
		
		
		 
	
	
