Leisure time in the 1920s:
	The liberals - led by Wiliam Lyon Mackenzie King. 
	Flappers: 	Dancing and going out to clubs.
				Go to see a movie or a live show. 
				Silent Movie, use orchestra music. 
				Jazz Music, the music of rebellion. 

Rumrunners during Prohibition and the desire for Canadain Whiskey:
	The smuggling of alchohol often between the border of Canada and United States. -- Al Capone. American Black Hand. 

The Person's Case:
	The famous five:
		Emily Murphy, was the first female judge in the Canadian History. 
		Nellie McClang was a member of the Alberta legislature by the time. 
		Woman could hold government positions after the case. 
		After the Supreme court of Alberta ruled in her favoer, she took the place to the Supreme Court of Canada, but the Supreme Court of Canada ruled against her favor.  
		The Privy Council ruled in their favor, declared "woman" as a "qualifyed person" in Canadian Law.

Statute of Westminster:
	The British government past the statute in 1931. 
	Give Canada and other British's Coloney complete control over their relations with other countries. 
	Until 1949, Brity Privy Council is still the highest court of appeal for Canadian until 1949. 
	The Statute of Westminster marked a major milestone on Canada’s road to sovereignty.  
	
"5 cents speech"
	When Oppostion asked Liberal government to provide money to province conservative government, King declared Federal government will not provide even 5 cents. 
	
Canada's new deal:
	Maximum work weeks
	provide unemployment insurance
	a minimum wage. 
	old-age pension to peoples in Canada. 
	
	
Struggles of farmers and young mans:
    During the great depression, young single men unabled to find a job to live on due to the high unemployment rate.     
    Farmers unabled to continue business because of grasshoppers and crashs of agriculture products. 
        4 things farmer did to survive:
            Some farmer move to north of Prince Alberta where rain fell.
            They gave up some of their possessions. 
            They ate gopher stew. 
            they went barefoot, dressed in flour bag, burn wheat instead of wood. 



		

 
